HOUSE OF HUMOUR

HOH Ticket Management and Entry Verification Platform

Product Requirements Document

This document defines the coding requirements for the HOH ticket portal. The product will register buyers against pre-generated ticket codes, connect records to a Google Sheet, verify QR codes at the venue, and prevent the same ticket from being admitted twice.

Document item

Value

Product

HOH Ticket Portal

Ticket range

HOH001 to HOH050

Primary users

HOH sales team and venue entry team

Data source

Google Sheets through Google Apps Script

Target devices

Mobile phones, tablets, and desktop browsers

Version

1.0

Status

Ready for development

Product decision

Build one responsive web application with three working areas: buyer registration, venue entry verification, and ticket administration. The Google Sheet remains the shared source of truth. Device storage may be used only as a temporary fallback when the Sheet connection is unavailable.

Success at launch

A staff member can register a buyer against any unused code from HOH001 to HOH050.

Entry staff can scan or type a code and see whether the ticket is valid, registered, and already used.

A valid unused ticket can be marked Entered once. Every later attempt is blocked as a duplicate.

Updates from multiple phones appear in the same Google Sheet and remain consistent.

Product overview

Problem

HOH already has ticket codes and QR graphics, but buyer details and venue entry status need one controlled system. Manual lists make it difficult to confirm who bought a ticket, whether payment was collected, and whether the same QR has already been used.

Product goal

The portal will give the sales and venue teams a shared, mobile-friendly workflow. Each ticket code will have one buyer record and one entry status. Google Sheets will store the operational data so nontechnical staff can review or correct records when necessary.

Goals

Register buyer and payment details in less than one minute.

Verify a ticket in less than five seconds after scanning or typing the code.

Prevent duplicate admission even when two staff members scan the same code from different phones.

Make all 50 tickets searchable by code, buyer name, phone number, payment status, and entry status.

Keep the interface consistent with the House of Humour burgundy and gold visual identity.

Items outside the first release

Online payment collection and payment gateway integration

Automatic WhatsApp or email delivery of tickets

Ticket generation or QR image generation

Seat maps and reserved seating

BookMyShow synchronization

Public customer accounts or customer self-service

Assumptions

The QR payload is the exact ticket code, such as HOH017. If an existing QR stores a URL or another payload, a mapping field must be added before launch.

One ticket code represents one booking. The Guests field stores the number of people covered by that booking.

Entry staff have internet access at the venue. Offline support is a future enhancement and is not a launch requirement.

Users and permissions

Role

Main tasks

Allowed actions

Restrictions

Sales staff

Record buyer and payment details

Create or update buyer records and view tickets

Cannot reverse an entry without administrator permission

Entry staff

Verify QR codes at the venue

Look up tickets and mark valid tickets Entered

Cannot change buyer or payment details

Administrator

Maintain the system

All sales and entry actions plus correction and connection settings

Must protect the Google Apps Script URL and admin access

Viewer

Monitor attendance

Read dashboard and ticket list

Cannot edit records or mark entry

Access model

The production version should use authenticated staff access. If authentication is deferred for the first event, the deployed site must remain private and the Apps Script URL must not be shared publicly. The application must separate sales and entry actions in the interface even when one person performs both roles.

Primary user journeys

1. Sales staff open Buyer Registration, select the printed ticket code, enter the buyer and payment details, and save the record.

2. Entry staff open Check Entry, scan the QR code or type its value, review the buyer and status, and select Mark as Entered.

3. The system writes the entry timestamp atomically. If the ticket is already entered, the system blocks the action and shows the previous entry time.

4. An administrator searches the ticket register to review available, registered, paid, pending, entered, and not entered tickets.

Functional requirements

Buyer registration

ID

Requirement

Acceptance condition

FR 01

Show ticket codes HOH001 through HOH050 in a controlled selector.

No code outside the approved range can be saved.

FR 02

Collect buyer name, phone, email, guest count, payment status, amount, and notes.

Buyer name and phone are required. Other fields may be optional.

FR 03

Allow an existing buyer record to be updated without changing its ticket code.

The update keeps the original registration time and current entry status.

FR 04

Prevent one ticket code from creating multiple rows.

Saving the same code updates its existing row.

FR 05

Show a clear success or error message after every save.

The user can tell whether the Google Sheet accepted the record.

Ticket verification

ID

Requirement

Acceptance condition

FR 06

Accept a QR scan or manual ticket code.

Both methods use the same normalization and lookup logic.

FR 07

Normalize input by trimming spaces and converting letters to uppercase.

Inputs such as hoh001 and HOH001 return the same record.

FR 08

Classify a lookup as Invalid, Not Registered, Valid, or Already Entered.

Only Valid tickets display the Mark as Entered action.

FR 09

Display buyer name, phone, guest count, payment status, and ticket code before entry.

Entry staff can confirm the buyer before admitting them.

FR 10

Mark entry once and store a server generated timestamp.

The Sheet changes Entered to true and records Entered At.

FR 11

Block repeat admission.

A second scan returns Already Entered and never overwrites the first timestamp.

Ticket administration

ID

Requirement

Acceptance condition

FR 12

Show all 50 ticket records in one searchable table.

Search matches ticket code, buyer name, phone, payment status, and entry status.

FR 13

Show summary counts for Registered, Entered, and Available tickets.

Counts update after each successful save or entry action.

FR 14

Allow an administrator to open a ticket from the list.

Selecting a row opens the corresponding ticket verification view.

FR 15

Show the Google Sheet connection status.

The header displays Sheet Connected, Connecting, or Device Mode.

FR 16

Provide a controlled connection settings screen.

Only administrators can add, test, replace, or disconnect the Apps Script endpoint.

Business rules

Rule

Definition

BR 01

Valid ticket codes match HOH001 through HOH050 exactly after normalization.

BR 02

The QR payload must resolve to one ticket code. Unknown payloads are invalid.

BR 03

A ticket may be registered even when payment is pending.

BR 04

A ticket without a buyer name cannot be marked Entered.

BR 05

The first successful entry timestamp is permanent unless an administrator performs a documented correction.

BR 06

Entry updates require a lock or conditional write so two devices cannot admit the same ticket simultaneously.

BR 07

A cancelled or refunded ticket must not be admitted. Add these payment or ticket states before using them operationally.

BR 08

Guest count must be an integer from 1 to 10 unless HOH approves a different limit.

Data model

Google Sheet columns

Column

Type

Required

Purpose

Code

Text

Yes

Unique ticket identifier such as HOH001

QR Payload

Text

Conditional

Exact decoded value when it differs from Code

Buyer Name

Text

For registration

Name used at the venue

Phone

Text

For registration

Buyer contact number stored as text

Email

Text

No

Optional contact address

Guests

Integer

Yes

Number of people covered by the ticket

Payment Status

Enum

Yes

Pending, Paid, Complimentary, Refunded, or Cancelled

Amount

Number

No

Amount collected in Indian rupees

Notes

Text

No

Seat, source, or operational note

Entered

Boolean

Yes

False until the booking enters

Entered At

Date time

When entered

Server generated entry timestamp

Registered At

Date time

When registered

Original buyer registration timestamp

Updated At

Date time

Yes

Latest record update timestamp

Updated By

Text

Recommended

Staff identity for audit purposes

Data constraints

Code is the unique key and must never be reassigned after entry.

Phone numbers are text values so leading zeros and country codes remain intact.

All timestamps use ISO 8601 in storage and display in the venue local time.

The application must read column names from a fixed schema or validate the header row before processing records.

The first 50 data rows must map predictably to HOH001 through HOH050, or the backend must find rows by Code instead of row number.

System architecture

Layer

Recommended implementation

Responsibility

Web interface

React and TypeScript

Forms, QR camera access, status display, search, and responsive layout

UI system

Tailwind CSS and reusable components

Consistent form controls, tabs, tables, dialogs, badges, and alerts

Integration API

Google Apps Script Web App

Validate requests, lock writes, read and update the Sheet, and return JSON

Data storage

Google Sheets

Shared ticket records visible to authorized HOH staff

Hosting

HTTPS capable static or server rendered host

Serve the portal and permit camera access on mobile devices

Authentication

Private site access or staff sign in

Prevent unauthorized use of registration and entry tools

Request flow

1. The browser validates the form or scanned code before sending a request.

2. The Apps Script endpoint validates the action and ticket code again on the server.

3. For entry actions, Apps Script acquires a document lock and reads the current Entered value.

4. The backend writes the update only when the ticket is registered and unused.

5. The backend returns the current ticket record. The interface refreshes its local view from that response.

Suggested source structure

Path

Purpose

app or src pages

Application shell and primary ticket workspace

components ticket

Registration form, entry result, ticket table, QR scanner, and summary cards

lib ticketRules ts

Code normalization, status calculation, and shared validation

lib sheetClient ts

Google Apps Script request methods and response parsing

types ticket ts

TicketRecord and API response types

public backend gs

Google Apps Script source supplied to the Sheet owner

tests

Rule, integration, and user flow tests

API contract

The Google Apps Script Web App exposes a small JSON API. Every response uses an ok boolean. Failed requests include an error message suitable for staff display after sensitive details are removed.

Action

Method

Input

Successful result

list

GET

No body

All ticket records

lookup

POST

code

Current ticket record

upsert

POST

Ticket buyer fields

Saved ticket record

markEntered

POST

code

Ticket record with Entered true and timestamp

health

GET

No body

Service and Sheet connection status

Example record

{  "code": "HOH017",  "buyerName": "Sample Buyer",  "phone": "+91XXXXXXXXXX",  "guests": 2,  "paymentStatus": "Paid",  "amount": 1000,  "entered": false,  "enteredAt": ""}

Required server validations

Reject unrecognized actions and malformed JSON.

Reject codes outside HOH001 through HOH050.

Reject registration without a buyer name or phone number.

Reject entry when the buyer record is empty, the ticket is cancelled, or Entered is already true.

Use a write lock for upsert and markEntered operations.

Return the stored record after every write so the client displays server truth.

Interface and theme

Visual direction

The interface should resemble a modern theatre box office rather than a generic admin dashboard. Burgundy provides the main brand surface, gold identifies key HOH elements, and warm neutral backgrounds keep forms readable. Ticket edge details may be used sparingly around registration panels.

Token

Value

Use

Primary burgundy

#541D2B

Header, primary buttons, active navigation, and brand mark

Accent gold

#E0A526

Small labels, icons, focus accents, and selected highlights

Warm background

#F6F0EC

Page background

White

#FFFFFF

Forms, tables, and working surfaces

Success green

#17623B

Valid ticket and successful entry

Warning amber

#8B5C0B

Pending payment and unregistered ticket

Error red

#B4232F

Invalid ticket, duplicate entry, and failed sync

Body text

#241D1B

Primary text

Muted text

#6D625E

Secondary labels and metadata

Typography and spacing

Use Arial, Inter, or another highly readable sans serif family available in the target environment.

Use at least 16 px for body text and 14 px for frequently used labels.

Use a compact 8 px spacing system with touch targets at least 44 px high.

Use rounded panels and controls consistently. Avoid excessive shadows and decorative gradients.

Status language

State

Label

Visual treatment

Action

Unknown code

Invalid Ticket

Red

Return to scan or manual entry

Valid code without buyer

Not Registered

Amber

Send to registration desk

Registered and unused

Valid Ticket

Green

Show Mark as Entered

Already used

Already Entered

Red

Block entry and show first entry time

Connection unavailable

Device Mode or Sync Failed

Neutral or amber

Do not imply the Sheet was updated

Screen requirements

Screen

Required content

Primary action

Buyer Registration

Ticket selector, buyer details, guest count, payment, amount, notes, connection state

Save buyer details

Check Entry

QR scanner, manual code field, ticket result, buyer details, entry time

Mark as Entered

Ticket Register

Summary counts, search, 50 ticket rows, payment and entry badges

Open selected ticket

Connection Settings

Apps Script URL, connection test, status, setup instructions

Connect Google Sheet

Responsive behavior

Desktop screens may place forms and status panels side by side.

Mobile screens stack content in one column and keep the main action visible without horizontal scrolling.

The ticket table becomes horizontally scrollable only when columns cannot be reduced safely.

The QR camera uses the rear camera when supported and provides a manual entry fallback.

Navigation labels remain understandable when icons are hidden or unavailable.

Accessibility

All inputs have visible labels and clear error text.

Color never carries status alone. Every state includes a text label and appropriate icon.

Keyboard users can complete registration, ticket lookup, and entry marking.

Focus indicators remain visible against burgundy, gold, white, and warm neutral surfaces.

Status updates use an accessible live region so screen readers announce success and failure.

Security and privacy

Risk

Requirement

Unauthorized staff access

Keep the portal private or require staff authentication before production use.

Exposed Apps Script URL

Do not place administrative secrets in client code. Restrict deployment access where practical.

Duplicate entry race

Acquire a server side lock and recheck Entered before writing.

Input tampering

Repeat all code, field, and permission validation in Apps Script.

Personal data exposure

Collect only operational buyer data and limit Sheet sharing to the HOH team.

Accidental edits

Protect the code and entry columns in the Sheet or limit manual editing to administrators.

Audit gaps

Store update timestamps and staff identity when authentication is available.

Data retention

HOH should define how long buyer contact data is required after the event. The administrator should archive attendance totals, then remove or anonymize phone and email fields when they are no longer needed. The application must not reuse buyer details for marketing without the required consent.

Failure behavior

Never show a successful save before the Google Sheet confirms the write.

When a lookup fails because the network is unavailable, show Sync Failed rather than Invalid Ticket.

If the camera cannot open, keep manual ticket entry available.

If the Sheet schema is incorrect, block writes and tell the administrator which required column is missing.

Log technical details for administrators while showing concise staff-facing messages.

Nonfunctional requirements

Category

Requirement

Launch target

Performance

Ticket lookup response under normal venue connectivity

95 percent within 3 seconds

Entry speed

Scan to final status

Within 5 seconds

Reliability

No duplicate successful entry for one code

Zero duplicate admissions

Capacity

Concurrent staff devices

At least 10

Compatibility

Supported browsers

Current Chrome, Safari, and Edge

Responsiveness

Mobile viewport

Usable from 360 px width

Availability

Portal during event operating hours

99.5 percent target

Recoverability

Sheet remains readable if the portal is unavailable

Manual fallback available

Observability

Record action type, ticket code, timestamp, result, and staff identity for entry attempts.

Track failed Google Sheet requests separately from invalid ticket scans.

Provide simple counts for registrations, entries, invalid scans, and duplicate attempts.

Do not store full buyer contact details in technical logs.

Testing plan

Test area

Required cases

Code validation

HOH001, HOH050, lowercase input, surrounding spaces, HOH000, HOH051, blank, and unrelated QR payload

Registration

New record, update existing record, missing name, missing phone, invalid guest count, payment states, and special characters

Entry

Valid unused ticket, unregistered ticket, invalid ticket, cancelled ticket, already entered ticket, and two simultaneous entry attempts

Google Sheet

Missing Sheet, wrong headers, read failure, write failure, lock timeout, and malformed response

QR camera

Permission allowed, permission denied, unsupported browser, blurred code, and manual fallback

Responsive layout

360 px mobile, tablet portrait, desktop, enlarged text, and long buyer names

Accessibility

Keyboard flow, labels, focus visibility, live status messages, and noncolor status cues

Critical acceptance tests

1. Register HOH001 for a buyer and confirm the same data appears in the Google Sheet.

2. Scan HOH001 and confirm the interface shows the buyer and Valid Ticket.

3. Mark HOH001 as Entered and confirm the Sheet stores true plus an entry timestamp.

4. Scan HOH001 again from another device and confirm the system shows Already Entered without changing the first timestamp.

5. Scan HOH051 and confirm the system shows Invalid Ticket and performs no write.

6. Disable connectivity during lookup and confirm the system shows Sync Failed rather than Invalid Ticket.

Implementation plan

Phase

Development scope

Completion evidence

1 Foundation

Project setup, HOH theme tokens, shared types, ticket code rules, and responsive application shell

Application builds and displays all three work areas

2 Google Sheet backend

Sheet initialization, list, lookup, upsert, markEntered, locks, and error responses

API tests pass with HOH001 and HOH050

3 Buyer registration

Registration form, validation, success and failure states, and record updates

Buyer data persists and reloads from the Sheet

4 Entry verification

Manual lookup, camera QR scan, ticket status, atomic entry, and duplicate blocking

Concurrent duplicate test admits only one request

5 Administration

Summary counts, ticket list, search, filters, and connection settings

Counts and rows match the Sheet

6 Hardening

Authentication, permissions, accessibility, error handling, logging, and device testing

Launch checklist approved

7 Deployment

Production configuration, staff training, dry run, and fallback procedure

Production URL and operating guide delivered

Developer deliverables

Production web application source code and deployment configuration

Google Apps Script source and Sheet setup instructions

Environment configuration example without secrets

Automated tests for ticket rules and entry locking

Administrator setup guide and venue staff quick guide

Deployment link and rollback procedure

Definition of done

All functional requirements in this PRD pass acceptance testing.

HOH001 through HOH050 can be registered, found, and marked Entered correctly.

A duplicate scan cannot create a second successful entry.

The interface is usable on current Android and iPhone browsers.

The Google Sheet, Apps Script, and website are owned by the HOH account or approved administrator.

Staff receive a short operating guide and complete one venue dry run before the event.

Launch checklist

Status

Launch item

Owner

Open

Confirm the exact decoded payload for every existing QR code

HOH operations

Open

Confirm whether one ticket may cover more than one guest

HOH operations

Open

Approve payment and cancellation statuses

HOH administration

Open

Create and share the production Google Sheet with approved staff

HOH administration

Open

Deploy Apps Script and test list, lookup, save, and entry actions

Developer

Open

Configure private site access or staff authentication

Developer and administrator

Open

Run the simultaneous duplicate entry test

Developer

Open

Test camera scanning on venue phones and network

Entry team

Open

Prepare a manual Sheet fallback for venue use

HOH operations

Open

Complete a full dry run before doors open

All staff

Product approval

Development may begin after HOH confirms the QR payload format, booking capacity per ticket, final payment states, and the staff access model. These choices affect validation, Sheet columns, and the entry workflow.